README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">🪟 Windows 11 Configuration</h1>

A secure, reproducible Windows 11 setup for development and productivity.

---

📖 **Table of contents:**

- [💿 Windows 11 Installation Media](#-windows-11-installation-media)
  - [📥 Download Windows 11 ISO image](#-download-windows-11-iso-image)
  - [💾 Create Bootable USB with Rufus](#-create-bootable-usb-with-rufus)
- [⚡ Quick Setup](#-quick-setup)
  - [🔑 Windows Activation](#-windows-activation)
  - [🔒 PowerShell Security](#-powershell-security)
  - [📦 Package Management (WinGet)](#-package-management-winget)
  - [🛠️ Development Tools](#️-development-tools)
  - [🐧 WSL (Optional)](#-wsl-optional)
- [⚙️ System Configuration](#️-system-configuration)
  - [🔋 Power Management](#-power-management)
  - [⏰ Dual-boot Time Sync](#-dual-boot-time-sync)
- [🔐 Privacy \& Security](#-privacy--security)
- [🔧 Troubleshooting](#-troubleshooting)


## 💿 Windows 11 Installation Media

### 📥 Download Windows 11 ISO image

**Download Windows 11 ISO** file from one of two sources:
- https://massgrave.dev/windows_11_links
- https://www.microsoft.com/software-download/windows11

> [!TIP]
> [massgrave.dev](https://massgrave.dev/windows_11_links) download source contains **Windows 11 Business edition**, which is recommended to use as it doesn't include consumer bloatware, Microsoft Store ads, or preinstalled games like Candy Crush.

### 💾 Create Bootable USB with [Rufus](https://rufus.ie/)

- Download and install [Rufus](https://rufus.ie/)
- Insert USB drive (8GB+ recommended)
- Run Rufus app
- Click "SELECT" and choose the downloaded Windows 11 ISO
- Keep default settings (GPT partition scheme, UEFI target system)
- Click "START" and wait for completion

## ⚡ Quick Setup

### 🔑 Windows Activation

> [!CAUTION]
>
> Use legitimate license keys!
> 
> Community activation helpers are a last resort only: https://massgrave.dev/
> 
> **Always read and validate any scripts before running them on your local machine.**

### 🔒 PowerShell Security
```powershell
Set-ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned -Scope LocalMachine
```

### 📦 Package Management (WinGet)
- Install [App Installer](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/p/app-installer/9nblggh4nns1) from Microsoft Store
- Apply WinGet config by:

  ```powershell
  # Install all packages from config
  cd <repo>/files
  winget configure --enable; winget configure --accept-configuration-agreements -f .\config.dsc.yaml
  ```

### 🛠️ Development Tools

All tools are included in WinGet [`config.dsc.yaml`](./files/config.dsc.yaml) config file.

Install VS Code extensions:
```powershell
.\files\vscode-extensions.ps1
```

### 🐧 WSL (Optional)
```powershell
wsl --install --distribution Debian
wsl --set-default-version 2
# Reboot required
```

## ⚙️ System Configuration

### 🔋 Power Management
```powershell
# Disable hibernation
powercfg.exe /hibernate off

# Disable wake devices
powercfg -devicequery wake_armed | Where-Object { $_.Trim() -ne 'NONE' } | ForEach-Object { powercfg /devicedisablewake "$($_.Trim())" }
```

### ⏰ Dual-boot Time Sync
```powershell
# Set Windows to use UTC (revert with value 0)
Set-ItemProperty -Path "HKLM:\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\TimeZoneInformation" -Name "RealTimeIsUniversal" -Type DWord -Value 1
```

## 🔐 Privacy & Security

Install O&O ShutUp10++ for privacy settings:
```powershell
winget install OO-Software.ShutUp10
```

> [!WARNING]
> Create a system restore point before applying privacy changes.

## 🔧 Troubleshooting

| Issue | Solution |
|-------|----------|
| Firefox video freeze | Set `widget.windows.window_occlusion_tracking.enabled` to `false` in `about:config` |
| Network issues | `ipconfig /flushdns; netsh winsock reset` |
| Password prompts | Run `netplwiz` |

Commit message:

docs(README.md): enhance Windows 11 configuration guide with additional explanations for installation media, setup steps, system optimization, privacy settings, and troubleshooting

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">🪟 Windows 11 Configuration</h1>

A secure, reproducible Windows 11 setup for development and productivity.

---

📖 **Table of contents:**

- [💿 Windows 11 Installation Media](#-windows-11-installation-media)
  - [📥 Download Windows 11 ISO image](#-download-windows-11-iso-image)
  - [💾 Create Bootable USB with Rufus](#-create-bootable-usb-with-rufus)
- [⚡ Quick Setup](#-quick-setup)
  - [🔑 Windows Activation](#-windows-activation)
  - [🔒 PowerShell Security](#-powershell-security)
  - [📦 Package Management (WinGet)](#-package-management-winget)
  - [🛠️ Development Tools](#️-development-tools)
  - [🐧 WSL (Optional)](#-wsl-optional)
- [⚙️ System Configuration](#️-system-configuration)
  - [🔋 Power Management](#-power-management)
  - [⏰ Dual-boot Time Sync](#-dual-boot-time-sync)
- [🔐 Privacy \& Security](#-privacy--security)
- [🔧 Troubleshooting](#-troubleshooting)


## 💿 Windows 11 Installation Media

Get your Windows 11 installation ready with clean, bloatware-free media that ensures a smooth setup experience. Using the right installation source prevents unnecessary software and provides a solid foundation for your system. Download the ISO and create a bootable USB drive following the simple steps below.

### 📥 Download Windows 11 ISO image

**Download Windows 11 ISO** file from one of two sources:
- https://massgrave.dev/windows_11_links
- https://www.microsoft.com/software-download/windows11

> [!TIP]
> [massgrave.dev](https://massgrave.dev/windows_11_links) download source contains **Windows 11 Business edition**, which is recommended to use as it doesn't include consumer bloatware, Microsoft Store ads, or preinstalled games like Candy Crush.

### 💾 Create Bootable USB with [Rufus](https://rufus.ie/)

- Download and install [Rufus](https://rufus.ie/)
- Insert USB drive (8GB+ recommended)
- Run Rufus app
- Click "SELECT" and choose the downloaded Windows 11 ISO
- Keep default settings (GPT partition scheme, UEFI target system)
- Click "START" and wait for completion

## ⚡ Quick Setup

Set up your Windows 11 system for development and productivity with these essential post-installation steps. These configurations establish the security policies, package management, and development tools that will serve as your system's foundation. Work through these steps in order to avoid common setup issues and get everything running smoothly.

### 🔑 Windows Activation

> [!CAUTION]
>
> Use legitimate license keys if you can! 
> 
> Community activation script is the last resort!

- https://github.com/massgravel/Microsoft-Activation-Scripts

### 🔒 PowerShell Security
```powershell
Set-ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned -Scope LocalMachine
```

### 📦 Package Management (WinGet)
- Install [App Installer](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/p/app-installer/9nblggh4nns1) from Microsoft Store
- Apply WinGet config by:

  ```powershell
  # Install all packages from config
  cd <repo>/files
  winget configure --enable; winget configure --accept-configuration-agreements -f .\config.dsc.yaml
  ```

### 🛠️ Development Tools

All tools are included in WinGet [`config.dsc.yaml`](./files/config.dsc.yaml) config file.

Install VS Code extensions:
```powershell
.\files\vscode-extensions.ps1
```

### 🐧 WSL (Optional)
```powershell
wsl --install --distribution Debian
wsl --set-default-version 2
# Reboot required
```

## ⚙️ System Configuration

Fine-tune your Windows 11 system with these advanced optimizations that boost performance and resolve common issues. These settings optimize power management, fix time sync problems in dual-boot setups, and improve overall system stability. Apply these configurations after your initial setup to get the most out of your Windows experience.

### 🔋 Power Management
```powershell
# Disable hibernation
powercfg.exe /hibernate off

# Disable wake devices
powercfg -devicequery wake_armed | Where-Object { $_.Trim() -ne 'NONE' } | ForEach-Object { powercfg /devicedisablewake "$($_.Trim())" }
```

### ⏰ Dual-boot Time Sync
```powershell
# Set Windows to use UTC (revert with value 0)
Set-ItemProperty -Path "HKLM:\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\TimeZoneInformation" -Name "RealTimeIsUniversal" -Type DWord -Value 1
```

## 🔐 Privacy & Security

Take control of your Windows 11 privacy and security with these essential configurations that protect your data and system integrity. These settings reduce unnecessary telemetry and data collection while keeping your system functional and secure. Use the recommended tools to customize your privacy preferences based on your specific security needs.

Install O&O ShutUp10++ for privacy settings:
```powershell
winget install OO-Software.ShutUp10
```

> [!WARNING]
> Create a system restore point before applying privacy changes.

## 🔧 Troubleshooting

Find quick solutions to common Windows 11 issues that might pop up during setup or daily use. These troubleshooting steps cover frequent problems like application freezes, network issues, and authentication prompts. Keep this section handy when problems arise to get your system back on track quickly.

| Issue | Solution |
|-------|----------|
| Firefox video freeze | Set `widget.windows.window_occlusion_tracking.enabled` to `false` in `about:config` |
| Network issues | `ipconfig /flushdns; netsh winsock reset` |
| Password prompts | Run `netplwiz` |
